---
title: 'Reflection: The Work of Art in the age of Mechanical Reproduction'
date: 2018-12-20 00:00:00
featured_image: '/images/posts/blog-tile.png'
---

After reading Walter Benjamin's "The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction", my first feeling was that this essay seemed overwhelming timely considering it was written in the 1930s. The idea of an object's 'aura' was really intriguing to me in the fact that it can diminish the more times that the object is replicated. He states that "by making reproductions it substitutes the plurality of copies for a unique experience."  I can't help but think about how that concept plays in to the Information Age.

Following the idea of the aura being diminished as a piece is replicated, and the thought that is presented about a film actor compared to the stage actor, a connection can be drawn to the actions people take in comparison to their online presence. Benjamin talks about how a stage actor can alter their performance based off the audience's reaction. A film actor does not have that opportunity and the performance is instead resting in the hands of the director, cinematographer, and editor. To add to this, the aura of the stage actor is in tact and is being experienced real-time by the audience. The film actor's aura disappears as it is captured on film. The argument is made that the film responds to the diminishing aura with an artificial build up of the actor's "personality" outside of the studio. So, with studio dollars, a celebrity is made - referred to as the "spell of personality" - the phony spell of a commodity.

This can directly be translated to social media and online personas where normal people become the actors, and the studio is the social network. Except I believe it is more dangerous. As people share their ideas via digital devices and the lack of aura invites critique, the thought of one's life being scrutinized at all times is amplified. Not to mention, unlike an actor who is playing a role, people are showcasing representations of their true selves. Or at least the perspectives of their lives that they deem worth sharing. The "spell of personality" can be represented by 'likes' and 'shares'. So, what does that mean for the original aura of the piece -or the person for that matter? And how does that affect how they see themselves? The expectation that is created to present the best possible version of oneself is unsustainable - and the side effects of this are slowly coming to light.

I haven't taught for very long at this point, but I can see what I assume to be the results of this constant online engagement in the classroom. There seems to be a greater amount of anxiety in general when it comes to the idea of "failing". I've heard stories of full blown panic attacks occurring because the thought of missing a subway train is so terrifying. It seems that the constant pressure to present one's ideal self to the world is making it so that the mere thought of failing is exacerbated to the point of causing physical reactions. Obviously this is merely an observation, and I'm sure there are other factors at play. But it's definitely something that could be worth exploring more.

This is a topic I think about a good bit. I've stayed away from posting on social media accounts for the better part of a year and a half now and am happy I've done so. Although, I'm a lurker extraordinaire and still keep up with the comings and goings of others through their social feeds. This puts me in the category of being part of the problem - I think. I'm not sure of a good solution or even compromise at this point, but I think to just keep observing the patterns with an awareness to how it is affecting people is a start. 
