---
title:   Closing American Modernism
date: 2019-01-23 00:00:00
featured_image: '/images/posts/blog-tile.png'
---

It took me a while to get through it, but I finally finished Remington's book, American Modernism. The last section spans the years from 1960 to 1999 and there is a great deal of topical information covered not to mention the major cultural shifts that took places between those years. The big messages that I took away after reading about those years are mentioned in a couple of quotes from Massimo Vignelli and Paul Rand. 

Vignelli said that without a serious study of history, theory, and criticism, design would never achieve full recognition as a profession. Pair that thought with the quote Remington uses to kick off the chapter that states "a detailed knowledge of the past is the only guarantee of a brilliant future" and one can start to see that design leaders were beginning to think about legacy, and ensuring that what we had learned up to that point didn't disappear. In some ways, it speaks to the maturity of the field at the time, and also underlines why there was such a backlash against the restrictions of the Modernism movement in the 1980s. In some ways, you know that the field of design had become a real thing once people started revolting against it. The other part of the opening Vignelli quote that I found interesting was how he spoke about technology. This can be paired with the thoughts of Paul Rand too.

Vignelli stated that "The new technologies have opened unimaginable possibilities for all of us, but the real task is not the education of the machine but that of its operator." It seems to be that has been a persistent thought of the time then and now as Paul Rand stated something similar by saying that "the language of the computer is the language of technology, not the language of design." Follow that with "the tangibles of computer technology are obviously easier to cope with than the intangibles of design. Concepts and ideas spring from the mind and not from the machine." The advent of the personal computer was a big deal in history, affected many industries, and possibly affected graphic design more than most. Both of these designers were touching on real issues that we are still struggling with. The separation and inevitable pairing of design and technology. 

One of the first things I try to implore to new design students is that design is about the idea, not about the tools we use to execute it. It doesn't help that in popular culture, the archetype of the designer sitting in front of the computer "making design" is pervasive. To break that preconception, the best remedy seems to be a study of the history of graphic design. And that brings us right around to where  Vignelli and Rand meet. The field of design will always be tied to art and technology, as that is one of the early tenants of Modernism—specifically of the Gropius Bauhaus. So, these are questions we'll always be facing. The interesting thing is, the answer to the problem has already been solved in the education of young designers in the history of their profession. Taking Vignelli's advice and making serious study of the history, theory, and criticism of design is the way we will grow and move forward as a field. And, hopefully, be seen as a profession with a backbone composed of ideas and not tools.